# 0Y

a multi-player procedural platformer prototype

## Inspiration

see it as a clone of spelunky and worms without the turns.

### Gameplay

a multiplayer Spelunky, Worms, platformer ?

### Principles

- when you start a game or join (create a world on a server)

  - a seed is assigned to you and the world you're in.
  - everything generated by the seed is:
    - kept on the client
    - procedurally generated on demand.
  - everything dynamic, that can change over time, is:
    - send to the server and shared in a world/level.
    - updated frequently

- server keeps track of :
  - seeds.
  - dynamic stuff (movable + items + tile state ?)
  - how to send what event to who
  - manage a server state and propagates it.

- art style/direction
  - everything that can be made with pixels should be made with pixels (no image files)
  - follow a strict color palette (to be defined)
  - 

### Tech stack

**Runtime deps**

- [pixi.js]() for sprite rendering
- [matter-js]() for physics
- [socket.io](): for communication
- rxjs: reactive stuff.
- reactive-state: used to manage server state and client state.
- express: web server
- mithril with tsx for ui / site rendering
- css-modules

**Development tools**

- Typescript, node.js,

  | tool | description    |
  | ---- | -------------- |
  | jest | test framework |

## architecture

Based on redux states,

**ServerState**

- server
  - clients[]
    - name
    - seed
    - ip
  - worlds[]
    - seed
    - name
    - entities[]
      - array of players and items left in the level.
    - levels[]
      - seed
      - tiles: []
      - items: []

**ClientState**

- client
  - entities[]
  - levels[]
  - view
